
This section tells you what to do if you have questions, how to backup and submit your work and how it will be graded.
Furthermore, it explains our policies on academic integrity and misuse of the resources.

## How to ask questions?

#### Ask questions on Slack or send us an email

Ask your question on the **#routing_project** channel available at
[comm-net21.slack.com](https://comm-net21.slack.com). Please do not ask questions in the
**#general** channel. You can also ask questions by [email](mailto:comm-net@ethz.ch).

#### Online Q&A sessions on Slack

During the normal exercise timeslots (Thursdays from 10:15AM to 11:55AM), we will be available
on Slack to answer questions and help you with the project. We will offer additional Q&A 
sessions to assist you as needed. The times of these additional sessions will be announced 
through Slack and our website in a timely manner.
Outside of these timeslots, you can always post your questions on Slack, but you might not
get an immediate answer.

## Regularly backup your work

To save the configuration of all your routers and switches, we provide you with a
script called `save_configs.sh`. Once executed
`./save_configs.sh` it will generate two equal folders following the
naming convention: `configs_[date]_[time]`. One folder is already
zipped for a simpler download. We advise you to run this script regularly and to
save the generated folders on your local machine to have a backup of your work. 

#### Download the zip file

To download the zip file generated by the `./save_configs.sh` script, you can use `scp`:

```
scp -P [2000+X] root@snowball.ethz.ch:~/configs_DATE_TIME.zip .
```

Where `X` is your group number and you have to adapt `DATE` and `TIME` to match the filename of your zip file.

## Submission instructions

#### :checkered_flag: Submit your Configs and Report on Gitlab

Each group has a repository on Gitlab to store the report and the configs. You can find your repository under `gitlab.ethz.ch/nsg/lectures/lec_commnet/projects/2021/routing_project/group-X` where X is your group number.

You have to submit all the router and switch configurations, as well as a PDF version of your report. We ask you to follow the structure in your repository.

Make sure that your report includes your group number as well as the name of the members in your group. The maximum length for your PDF report is 10 A4 pages (including screenshots, traceroutes, looking glass etc.). You can always remove parts from the screenshots, looking glass entries, etc. which are not needed to answer the question or demonstrate the correct functionality of your configuration.

In the following, we will explain how to clone the repository and submit your work both for UNIX and Windows systems:

##### UNIX systems

In order to access the repository from your computer, you first need to create a personal access token. Login to [gitlab.ethz.ch](https://gitlab.ethz.ch). Go to `Preferences` and then to `Access Tokens`. Give your access token a name (e.g., "CommNet") and give it read and write repository scopes. Then, create the token and note it down somewhere. 

In the terminal, first clone your repository to your computer:
```
git clone https://gitlab.ethz.ch/nsg/lectures/lec_commnet/projects/2021/routing_project/group-X.git
```

This only needs to be done once. From now on, when you want to get the latest updates from the remote repository, just use `git pull`.

To submit, you should download the configs using the `save_configs.sh` script, as described above. Then, unzip the archive and put the config files under `configs/` in your repository. Move the report to the `report/` directory.

Then, you need to add all the files:
```
git add configs/BROO.txt configs/CHAR.txt configs/CHIC.txt ...
git add report/report.pdf
git add report/decl_of_originality.pdf
```

You can check with `git status` which files have been added.
Finally, you need to make a commit and push it to the remote repository:

```
git commit -m 'COMMIT MESSAGE'
git push
```

Then, you can check whether you successfully pushed your configs by checking on the gitlab webinterface:

`gitlab.ethz.ch/nsg/lectures/lec_commnet/projects/2021/routing_project/group-X`

##### Windows systems

Install [git for Windows](https://gitforwindows.org/). Then, you can use `Git Bash` and follow the instructions for UNIX systems above.


#### Our grading policy

This assignment will be graded and counts for 20% of your final grade. There are a maximum of 10 points (plus half a bonus point). Each group member will receive the same grade: `min(1+your_total_points/2, 6)`.


#### Academic integrity

:cop: We adopt a strict zero tolerance policy when it comes to cheating.
Cheating will immediately result in the group failing the assignment and
being reported to the ETH administration. In particular, you can only do your
assignment with the other members of your group. Do not look at other groups'
configuration and do not copy configurations from anywhere. It is OK to discuss
things or find help online, but you must do the work by yourself.

Your configurations and report may be checked with automated tools so as to discover plagiarism.
Again, **do not copy-and-paste** code, text, etc.

To confirm that you are aware of this policy, we ask you to fill out and sign the declaration of originality found in your Gitlab repository in the report folder and upload it together with your final submission.
In previous years, we had group members cheating without the knowledge of the rest of the group. Because of this, we ask you to clearly indicate which group members worked on the different tasks. Note that, unless we detect any violations of our plagiarism policy, the information provided under „main contributors for each task” will not influence your final grade. As previously mentioned, every group member will get the same grade.

#### Misuse of the resources and infrastructure 

It is prohibited to use and modify the network in other ways than expressly allowed in this task description. 
The forbidden misuse includes, but is not limited to, BGP hijacks, DDoS attacks, resource-/bandwidth-hungry programs, and
the attempt to access the docker containers of other groups. :eyes: We monitor, investigate, and apply the appropriate disciplinary actions for cases of misuse.