As any network operator, you must verify that your configuration does what you
want, and debug it in case something goes wrong. We offer you several tools that
you can use to verify your configuration. These tools are similar to the ones network operators use in practice.

### Measurement container
We have setup a measurement container which will enable you
to launch `traceroutes` from any Tier2 AS (and not
necessarily only your own AS), towards any destination in the mini-Internet. This will
help you to know the paths used _towards_ your network.
The measurement container is connected to each AS via the interface `measurement_X` of
the router `NASH`. The IP address of this interface is pre-configured and follows
the convention `X.0.199.1/24` (see the [l3-network](1.2-Your-mini-Internet#l3-topology) network description),
with X your group number. For example if you are group 63, your pre-configured IP address on the interface
`measurement_63` at `NASH` will be `63.0.199.1/24`.
The `X.0.199.1/24` subnet must be reachable from anywhere in your network.

:exclamation: **You must therefore add it in your OSPF configuration**.

To access the measurement container, use the following command:

```
ssh -p 2099 root@snowball.ethz.ch
```

You can find the password in your GitLab repository.
To launch a traceroute, you can use the script
`launch_traceroute.sh`, which takes as argument the group number from
which the traceroute starts, and the destination IP address (possibly in another AS).
For instance, if you want to perform a traceroute from group 11 to `22.107.0.1`
(_i.e.,_ the host connected to `STLO` in group 22), just use the following command
in the measurement container:

```
./launch_traceroute.sh 11 22.107.0.1
```

Note that the traceroute will start from the router `NASH` of group 11, since
the measurement container is connected to that router.
In practice, network operators can use large-scale Internet measurement platforms
such as [RIPE Atlas](https://atlas.ripe.net) to assess the connectivity
of their network from outside.

### DNS service

To help you decoding your traceroute output, we have setup a
DNS server and have pre-configured your hosts to use it.
If the DNS server is used, the IP addresses in the traceroute output will be replaced
by the corresponding router names.
For example, `12.0.2.2` will
be translated into `DETR-BROO.group12`, because this is the IP address configured
on the interface `port_BROO` of the router `DETR` in AS12.
The DNS server is located in a container connected to the interface `dns` of the
router `DETR`. The IP address on that interface is pre-configured, you do not need
to modify it. Also, each host is pre-configured to use the DNS server.
Only hosts use the DNS server, routers do not. Of course, hosts can only
use the DNS server if they can reach the network `198.0.0.0/24` (where the DNS server
is located).

:exclamation: **As such, do not forget to include this network in
your OSPF configuration**.

### BGP looking glass
We have setup a looking glass service. In practice,
looking glasses are servers remotely accessible which display the routing information
of an IP router. For example, SWITCH, the Swiss educational network, gives public
access to its [looking glass](https://www.switch.ch/network/tools/lookingglass/).
This is useful to see how your BGP advertisements look like from a remote point of view.
On our website (under the `looking_glass` directory) we provide such a looking glass service for the mini-Internet. You can find
one file per group and router showing the result of a `show ip bgp`.
The files for group X are in the directory GX. For example, if you want to get the result of a `show ip bgp` at
`CHIC` for group 23, download the file
`http://comm-net.ethz.ch/routing_project/looking_glass/G23/CHIC.txt`.
These files are updated every minute.

### Connectivity matrix
We also provide you with a [connectivity matrix](http://comm-net.ethz.ch/routing_project/matrix/matrix.html),
which shows you whether two ASes can ping between each other. Before you setup
the eBGP sessions, everything will be red. As soon as you will setup the eBGP sessions with your neighbors,
the matrix will turn green for some pairs of ASes. At the end of this assignment,
we hope to see this matrix completely green!
The matrix is updated every few minutes.

### :new: BGP policy analyzer
To help you debug your BGP policies configuration, we designed a tool which automatically parses the looking glass files and checks whether each AS correctly advertises the BGP prefixes following the business agreements.
If an AS violates the business agreements for a prefix, the analyser prints the error in a [webpage](https://comm-net.ethz.ch/routing_project/bgp_analyzer/analysis.html) which is updated every 2 minutes.
These violations are commonly named [route leaks](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7908#section-2).
When configuring BGP policies, you can use this webpage to verify whether our analyser has detected an error for your AS or not.

:exclamation: This analyser does not detect all the policy violations, and thus its output is not an indication of what will be your final grade. It is **not** because you do not see any error that you will get all the points for the BGP policy questions.
An example of a policy violation that our analyser does not detect is when BGP input filters are configured. For instance, AS X may wrongly advertise a prefix to AS Y, but if AS Y denies the advertisement, it won't be in the looking glass, and thus won't be detected by our analyser. Yet, AS X has not properly configured the BGP policies and should fix that.

