
In order to explain how to configure interfaces, we will first describe 
their purpose, and then tell you about the naming conventions for this project.
Next, we will show you how to read and change the interface configuration.

### The purpose of an interface

A router interconnects IP networks through several IP interfaces. When
receiving a packet from one interface, it forwards it to another based on pre-computed forwarding decisions. Each IP interface must
have an IP address configured and must be in a different subnet.

> Try to think what would happen if that wasn't the case. 

### Interface naming conventions

Each router has interfaces to its neighbouring routers whose names
follow the pattern `port_<neighbor>`.
For instance, the interface on `NEWY` connected to `PITT` is named `port_PITT`. 
Moreover, each router has an interface connected to the host
named `host` and a loopback interface called `lo`. 
An interface connecting to another AS is called `ext_<AS-number>_<router-name>`. For example,
the interface on `CHIC` connecting to `NASH` in AS 82 has the name `ext_82_NASH`.

### Reading interface configurations

To get an overview of the interfaces, use the command

```
router# show interface
```

or for a briefer overview

```
router# show interface brief
```

You can get information for one specific interface with 

```
router# show interface INTERFACENAME
```

> Please ignore the interface `sit0`, it comes by default when enabling IPv6 on linux, but we don't need it.

### Changing interface configurations

You must first enter the configuration mode, and then specify the name of the
interface you want to configure:

```
router# conf t
router(config)# interface INTERFACENAME
router(config-if)# ip address 1.0.0.1/24
```

You can verify that the running configuration has been updated correctly with
the command `show run`.

:warning: Do **not** configure two different IP addresses
on one interface at the same time. If you have configured a wrong IP address,
first remove the address with the `no` command and then configure a new IP address:

```
router# conf t
router(config)# interface INTERFACENAME
router(config-if)# no ip address 1.0.0.1/24
router(config-if)# ip address 2.0.0.1/24
```

Once you have configured an IP address and a subnet on an interface, the router
knows that packets with a destination IP in this subnet must be forwarded to
this interface. To show the subnets that are directly connected to your router,
you can use the following command.

```
router# show ip route connected
C>* 2.0.0.0/24 is directly connected, INTERFACENAME
```

We see that `2.0.0.0/24` is directly connected and reachable with the interface
`INTERFACENAME`. At this stage, a packet with a destination IP that is not in
a directly connected subnet will be dropped. If you want your router to know
where to forward packets with an IP destination in a remote subnet, you must
use routing protocols, such as OSPF or BGP (explained in the following tutorial sections).