Internally, the mini-Internet is based on a large number of interconnected [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers. In this section, we show you how you can access (i) your main docker container, and from there, (ii) your FRRouting routers, Open vSwitches, and hosts, such that you can configure them.

## Accessing your docker container

To make your life easier, you do not need to run the virtual network inside
your laptop. Instead, we have setup a remote container for each group where your
virtual network already runs and desperately awaits you to configure it.
We have also setup our server so that each AS is connected to its neighboring
ASes only.

In the following, we describe how you can connect to your container using SSH and 
how you can copy directories from the container to your own machine.

#### Connecting to your container with SSH
To access your container, you will use SSH. SSH is a UNIX based command interface and
protocol for securely getting access to a remote computer. It is widely used by
system administrators to control network devices and servers remotely. An SSH
client is available by default on any Linux and MAC installation through the
Terminal application. For Windows users, a good and free SSH client is
[PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/); alternatively, 
you can use [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).
Once you have installed an SSH client, use the following command to connect yourself
to your container:

```
ssh -p X root@snowball.ethz.ch
```

where `X = 2000 + group_number`. For instance if you are group 7, use the following
command:

```
ssh -p 2007 root@snowball.ethz.ch
```

You find the required password in your group GitLab repository.
If you cannot connect to your container, please report it immediately in the Slack channel **#routing_project**.
If you want to simplify the access to your container (optional),
please use SSH key authentication.

:point_up: Ask us or Google it if you want to know more about this but **do not change your password or the key already available on the container**.

#### Download a directory from your container
If you want to download an entire directory from your container to the current directory of your own machine, you can use `scp`:

```
scp -r -P X root@snowball.ethz.ch:~/path_to_the_directory .
```

where `X = 2000 + group_number`. Note the dot at the end of the command and the capitalized `P`. On Windows, you can use [WinSCP](https://winscp.net/eng/docs/start) to do that. 

### Accessing your routers, switches and hosts

The following paragraphs describe how you can access your routers, switches and hosts
from your container.

#### Access to routers

When you are in your container, you can use the script `goto.sh` to connect to a router, a switch or a host.
For example, with the following command, you will access the router `STLO`:

```
./goto.sh STLO router
```

Now you are directly in the CLI of the router STLO. We describe the FRRouting
CLI in more detail in this [part](2.5-Configuring-iP-routers/2.5.1-The-FRRouting-CLI) of the tutorial.

#### Access to switches

Similarly, you can access a switch with the `goto.sh` script.
Simply use `DC1` or `DC2` as the first argument for the script, and the switch name 
as the second argument. An example to access switch `S2` in Data Center 1 is:

```
./goto.sh DC1 S2
```

Unlike FRRouting, there is no CLI for Open vSwitch. Hence, after you have run the above 
command, you are not _directly on_ (an interface of) the switch, but in an instance that 
_contains_ and simulates the switch. In other words, what has changed
is that you are now in a different terminal from which you can externally configure the simulated switch
by running [OpenvSwitch commands](2.3-Configuring-Open-vSwitch).

#### Access to hosts

From your container, you can also go to a host.
For example, if you want to go to the host which is connected to `BROO`,
just use the following command:

```
./goto.sh BROO host
```

If you want to access the `SpaceX` host connected to `S3` in the Data Center 1
network, you can use the following command (see also the layer-2 topology in 
the assignment):


```
./goto.sh DC1 SpaceX_3
```

If you want to access a NASA host, just replace `SpaceX` by `NASA`.

#### Important

No matter if you are in a router, switch or host, you can always use `exit` to get back to your main container from where you can use once again the `goto.sh` script to access a different device or host.

For debugging it can also help to run multiple ssh sessions at the same time. Simply open a new terminal window and connect once more to your main container.

Finally, note that the goto script supports autocompletion. Press the `TAB` key to autocomplete what you started to write or get a list of possible options.
