[Open vSwitch](https://www.openvswitch.org) is one of the most
popular software switches. It can typically be used in virtual environments,
for instance to connect two virtual machines.

The following sections explain how you can use and configure the switches in your mini-Internet.

### Naming conventions

On each switch, one port has the name `br0` and the corresponding interface has type `internal`. This is
a local port used by the host to communicate with the switch. You do *not*
need to use this port.
The ports to SpaceX and NASA hosts follow the name pattern `X-SpaceX_i`, `X-NASA_i` respectively, 
with X the AS number and i the host number (e.g. `84-SpaceX_2` for `SpaceX 2` in AS 84). 
The ports to other switches have the name `X-SWITCHNAME`,
`84-S3` for the port to `S3` in AS 84. 
If there is a port to a router, it is called `ROUTERNAMErouter`, e.g. `STLOrouter` on `S4`.

### Reading the current switch state and configuration

#### Brief switch overview
To print a brief overview of the switch state and its parameters, you can use the
following command:

```
> ovs-vsctl show
```

This command also tells you the VLANs each port belongs to. 

#### Port status
To get more precise information about the status of the ports, you can use the following
command:

```
> ovs-ofctl show br0
```

> Please note that the bandwidths in the output of this command do not correspond
> to the actual bandwidths used in the assignment.

#### Current configuration and statistics
To get the current configuration 
and all the statistics of the switch, you can
get a dump of the switch database with the following command:

```
> ovsdb-client dump
```

For example one entry of the database could look like this:

```
> 645981b6c 0 false [] 0 {} false [119f5-2be8bf5] [] [] 84-S3 {stp-path-cost="100"}
 [] {stp_error_count=0, stp_rx_count=312, stp_tx_count=3} {stp_port_id="8004",
  stp_role=alternate, stp_sec_in_state="223", stp_state=blocking} [] [10, 20] []
```

For instance, this entry is for the port named `84-S3` and
this port is a trunk port in VLANs 10 and 20.
Please note that [`grep`](https://linuxcommand.org/lc3_man_pages/grep1.html)
is also available to further filter the output. 

### Changing the VLAN configuration

Below are some commands to adapt the VLAN configuration of a switch.

To add a port to a VLAN, you can use the following command:

```
> ovs-vsctl set port PORT_NAME tag=10
```

This will add the port `PORT_NAME` to the VLAN 10. Since `PORT_NAME` is in one
VLAN only, the port is in tag mode. Should you add a port to several VLANs,
you can use the following command:

```
> ovs-vsctl set port PORT_NAME trunks=10,20
```

The port `PORT_NAME` will be in trunk mode for VLANs 10 and 20.
To clear the VLAN configuration on a port (here for a trunk link), you can
use the following command:

```
> ovs-vsctl clear port PORT_NAME trunks