During the lecture we briefly looked at IPv6 addresses and we will have a more detailed IPv6 lecture towards the end of the semester. Although IPv6 has a lot of advantages (e.g., a lot more different IP addresses compared to IPv4) it also comes with a big challenge, namely how to deploy IPv6 inside an existing IPv4 network. One approach is to configure IPv4 and IPv6 in parallel, a so-called dual-stack implementation. For example, a router would then have IPv4 and IPv6 addresses on all its interfaces and would run protocols such as BGP and OSPF for the IPv4 _and_ IPv6 address space. However, that requires a lot of additional configuration work and is not how we will handle IPv6 addresses in the mini-Internet. Instead, we use a transition protocol called 6in4.

6in4 is a tunneling protocol which allows an IPv6 network to connect to another IPv6 network over an IPv4 network/devices which only support IPv4. To do this, 6in4 encapsulates the IPv6 packets into IPv4 packets for transmission over the IPv4 network. A router at the border of the IPv4 network will add an additional IPv4 header on top of the IPv6 packet. All the devices inside the IPv4 network will then use the (well-known) IPv4 header to forward the packet. After the packet crosses the IPv4 network, the additional IPv4 header is removed again and the original IPv6 packet is forwarded to its destination.

In the following, we describe how to configure a 6in4 tunnel using the `ip` command available with linux.

First, set up the tunnel device:

```
> ip tunnel add TUNNEL_NAME mode sit remote REMOTE_ADDRESS local LOCAL_ADDRESS ttl 255
```

where `TUNNEL_NAME` is the name of the tunnel device, `LOCAL_ADDRESS` and `REMOTE_ADDRESS` are the ingress and the egress of the tunnel, respectively.
Then, turn on the tunnel device:

```
> ip link set TUNNEL_NAME up
```

Finally, configure the routes that are reachable through the tunnel:

```
> ip route add IPV6_PREFIX dev TUNNEL_NAME
```

where `IPV6_PREFIX` is the IPv6 prefix reachable through the tunnel `TUNNEL_NAME`.
> You can verify that the route have been configured with `ip -6 route`

To remove a tunnel, you can use the following command:

```
> ip tunnel del TUNNEL_NAME
```