:exclamation: Knowledge about the VPN configuration is only required for the bonus question.

You are able to connect your local device to the mini-Internet using a Virtual
Private Network (VPN). In the layer-2 network of every transit AS, there are three
different VPN ingress points, one in `S1`, one in `S2` and one in `S3`. Following, we explain
how you can install and configure a VPN client _on your local machine_ in
order to connect to the mini-Internet. The installation instructions assume you
are using a recent Ubuntu version. VPN access from other operating systems are
also possible but might required some tinkering. 

As a first step you have to install the [OpenVPN](https://openvpn.net/) client using the
following command:

```
sudo apt-get install openvpn
```

Your GitLab repository also contains three ports and certificate files which you need to connect to the different VPN servers in your AS. To connect to one of them, you need to create a configuration file. For that, create a file called
`client.conf` with the following content:

```
client
remote 82.130.102.244 VPN_PORT
dev tap
proto udp
resolv-retry infinite
nobind
persist-key
persist-tun
ca ca.crt
cipher AES-256-CBC
verb 3
auth-user-pass
```

Besides other information, this file defines to which VPN server you want to
connect and which protocols and certificates are used. `82.130.102.244`
corresponds to the IP address of our `snowball` server where the mini-Internet
is running. You have to replace `VPN_PORT` with either the `S1`, `S2` or `S3`
port available in your GitLab repo. Finally, `ca.crt` should be the corresponding
certificate file. 

Now you can start the VPN connection with:

```
sudo openvpn --config client.conf
```

You will be asked for a username and password. Your username is `groupX`
with `X` your group number and the password is the same as you use to connect to
the mini-Internet over ssh.

If everything works as expected, you should see the message
`Initialization Sequence Completed` at the bottom of the output.

> Do not abort the command, otherwise you will terminate the
VPN session.

Open a second terminal and look at the interfaces on your local
machine. You should see an interface called `tap0` which has an IP address
inside the `X.200.0.0/16` range (`X` your group number).
You can now use this interface to send traffic
directly to the mini-Internet without going over ssh.

