#### I have a problem when running a traceroute. It takes quite some time and the DNS service does not work.

When you run a `traceroute`, keep in mind that only the hosts connected to the routers
are configured to use
the DNS service. If you run a `traceroute` from a router, it will not translate the
IP addresses. If the DNS service is not reachable (_e.g.,_ because you have
not configured OSPF yet), run the `traceroute` with the option `-n`.
This will tell `traceroute` to not translate the IP addresses, and it will
save you some time.

#### How can I erase a configuration I have done on a FRRouting router?

To erase a configuration on a FRRouting router, it's very easy, just use the same
command you used, but add `no` at the beginning. For example, if
you configured an IP address with `ip address 1.0.0.1/24`, just run
`no ip address 1.0.0.1/24` to erase it.


#### I have the error `VTY configuration is locked by other VTY` when I run a `conf t` on a FRRouting router.

Only one VTY session can configure a FRRouting router at a time. If you have this problem,
it's either because one member of your group is already configuring this router,
or because VTY sessions are still running in the background and block your access
to the router (for example because you lost a previous ssh connection).
In the latter case (and you are sure that nobody of your group is currently configuring
this router), please send us a message on Slack and we will fix it as soon as possible.

#### My neighboring ASes are not active and I can't get connectivity with the rest of the mini-Internet because of that.

Although each group has two providers, two customers and two peers, it can happen
that some of them are inactive or have misconfigured BGP, which makes
you unreachable from some parts of the mini-Internet. This can also prevent you
to test your configuration or run `ping` or `traceroute`.
If you experience this problem when you answer the questions, please describe it
in your report and explain what you were not able to do because of it.
If this is really a big problem (_e.g.,_ both of your providers are inactive and
you can't reach the rest of the mini-Internet), please let us know and we will
find a way to solve the problem. If you could not show something in your report
due to failures of your neighbors, it will **not** negatively influence your grade :relaxed:.

#### One of my team members is not active at all.

Please reach out to the TA team as soon as possible and not only at the end of the project/when submitting the results. We will do our best to figure out what the problem is.

#### I can no longer connect to my ssh container, I get the following error: `ssh_exchange_identification: Connection closed by remote host` or `fork: retry: Resource temporarily unavailable`.

This can happen if too many processes run on your container. Given that we have to run thousands of containers on the same server, we had to limit the number of process which can run at the same time to 100. The easiest way to fix these problems is to contact one of the TAs via Slack and we will do our best to get your ssh container running again as soon as possible.
More advanced (e.g., if you still have an open connection), try to kill some of the currently running processes. First list all the process e.g., with `ps aux` and then kill some of them (especially the ssh or vtysh sessions) with the kill command. Be careful though, do not kill the `sshd` or `docker-start` processes.

#### When running the `launch_traceroute.sh` script from the measurement container we get the error: `fork: retry: Resource temporarily unavailable`.

Please contact one of the TAs via Slack and we will fix the problem as soon as possible.

#### We tried to find the looking glass entry for router XXX in a tier 1 AS but could not find the corresponding file.

Please note that tier 1 ASes have a smaller topology than your AS. You will only find looking glass entries for the routers BROO and NEWY. To figure out to which router your AS is connected to, have a look at the [as_connections](https://comm-net.ethz.ch/routing_project/as_connections) file.

#### When I configure an IPv6 address, the old one starting with `fe80` is not removed and I now have two IPv6 addresses configured on my interface.

This is expected. The IPv6 addresses in the subnet `fe80::/10` are link-local addresses and are configured automatically.
These addresses refer only to a particular link (subnet) and are used for addressing on a single link for purposes such as automatic address configuration and neighbor discovery protocol.